{\rtf1\ansi {\stylesheet
{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s247\li720 \i\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 8;}
{\s248\li720 \i\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 7;}
{\s249\li720 \ul\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 6;}
{\s250\li720 \b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 5;}
{\s251\li360 \ul \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 4;}
{\s252\li360 \b \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 3;}
{\s253\sb120 \b\f8 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s254\sb240 \b\f8\ul \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s255\li720 \fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 Normal Indent;}
}\deff1 {\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern pica;}{\f1\fmodern Courier;}
{\f2\fmodern elite;}{\f3\fmodern prestige;}{\f4\fmodern lettergothic;}
{\f5\fmodern gothicPS;}{\f6\fmodern cubicPS;}
{\f7\fmodern lineprinter;}{\f8\fswiss Helvetica;}
{\f9\fmodern avantegarde;}{\f10\fmodern spartan;}{\f11\fmodern metro;}
{\f12\fmodern presentation;}{\f13\fmodern APL;}{\f14\fmodern OCRA;}
{\f15\fmodern OCRB;}{\f16\froman boldPS;}{\f17\froman emperorPS;}
{\f18\froman madaleine;}{\f19\froman zapf humanist;}
{\f20\froman classic;}{\f21\froman roman f;}{\f22\froman roman g;}
{\f23\froman roman h;}{\f24\froman timesroman;}{\f25\froman century;}
{\f26\froman palantino;}{\f27\froman souvenir;}{\f28\froman garamond;}
{\f29\froman caledonia;}{\f30\froman bodini;}{\f31\froman university;}
{\f32\fscript script;}{\f33\fscript scriptPS;}{\f34\fscript script c;}
{\f35\fscript script d;}{\f36\fscript commercial script;}
{\f37\fscript park avenue;}{\f38\fscript coronet;}
{\f39\fscript script h;}{\f40\fscript greek;}{\f41\froman kana;}
{\f42\froman hebrew;}{\f43\froman roman s;}{\f44\froman russian;}
{\f45\froman roman u;}{\f46\froman roman v;}{\f47\froman roman w;}
{\f48\fdecor narrator;}{\f49\fdecor emphasis;}
{\f50\fdecor zapf chancery;}{\f51\fdecor decor d;}
{\f52\fdecor old english;}{\f53\fdecor decor f;}{\f54\fdecor decor g;}
{\f55\fdecor cooper black;}{\f56\ftech Symbol;}{\f57\ftech linedraw;}
{\f58\ftech math7;}{\f59\ftech math8;}{\f60\ftech bar3of9;}
{\f61\ftech EAN;}{\f62\ftech pcline;}{\f63\ftech tech h;}}{\colortbl
\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11904\paperh16836\margl1440\margr1440\ftnbj\ftnrestart \sectd \sbknone\endnhere 

\pard \qj\sl0 
\plain \f8\fs20 {\f2 #{\footnote \pard \plain \s1240 \fs20 # main_contents}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ Help Contents}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Contents;Help Contents}
\plain \pard \sl0 
\plain {\b\f8\fs24 Contents } \par \f8\fs20
\par
The Nonogram Solver v1.2 for Windows is capable of solving all of the standard \ul\f8\fs20 Nonogram\plain \ul\v\f8\fs20 typnono\plain \f8\fs20  style of puzzles. To learn more about Nonograms, see \uldb\f8\fs20 Introducing Nonograms\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 introduction\plain \f8\fs20 . To learn more about the changes from v1.0 for DOS, see \uldb\f8\fs20 Changes for Windows\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 changes\plain \f8\fs20 . To learn more about the changes from earlier Windows versions, see \uldb\f8\fs20 Changes from earlier versions\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 winchng\plain \f8\fs20 . \par
\par
\par
\b\f8\fs24 General Topics\par \plain \uldb\f8\fs20
\par 
Introducing Nonograms\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 introduction\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Data files\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 datafiles\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Solution options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 solution\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Display options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 display\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
\par
\par
\b\f8\fs24 Specialised Topics\par \plain \uldb\f8\fs20
\par
Printing Nonograms\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 print\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Parsing data\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 pars\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Changes for Windows\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 changes\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Changes from earlier versions\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 winchng\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # introduction}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ Introducing Nonograms}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Introducing Nonograms;What is a Nonogram?;Nonograms}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24  Introducing Nonograms\par\plain\f8\fs20
\par
\plain \ul\f8\fs20 Nonogram's\plain \ul\v\f8\fs20 typnono\plain \f8\fs20  belong to the grid family of puzzle's and are composed of a grid of squares, which can either be fully filled with one colour or left blank. (The Nonogram Solver for Windows uses grey to represent the unfilled squares and white to represent the filled squares.) Basic numerical data about the arrangement of the filled and unfilled squares is given, and it is up to the user to fill in the squares.\par
\par
The Nonogram Solver uses a variety of algorithmns to obtain a solution all of which can be tailored by the user. How to do so is given in the \plain \uldb\f8\fs20 Display Options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 display\plain \f8\fs20  and the \plain \uldb\f8\fs20 Solution Options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 solution\plain \f8\fs20  help entries.\par
\par
In order to perform a conversion, the program must be given an appropriate data file - see \plain \uldb\f8\fs20 Data 
Files\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 datafiles\plain \f8\fs20  for more information.\par
\par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Also See\par
\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Contents\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 main_contents\plain 
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # datafiles}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ Data files}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Data files;Data format}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24  Data files\par \plain \f8\fs20
\par
Data files must be in a plain ASCII format (such as those produced using NOTEPAD etc)\par
\par
The format is of one title line, followed by the puzzle data. The puzzle will be in the form of a 20x25 
grid and the data for the side of 20 must be entered first, followed by that for the side of 25. Each 
line of data must be terminated by a '99'.\par
\par
For example:\par
\par \f1\fs18
White Rabbit Nonogram\tab \tab \_ \f8\fs20 - Title line\par \f1\fs18
1 2 10 2 99 \tab \tab \tab \_ \f8\fs20 - First line of data out of block of twenty\par \f1\fs18
2 3 2 4 99\tab \tab \tab \tab \_ \f8\fs20 - Second line of data out of block of twenty\par \f1\fs18
3 4 1 6 99\tab \tab \tab \tab \_ \f8\fs20 - Third line of data out of block of twenty\par \f1\fs18
: : : :  : \tab \tab \tab \tab \_ \f8\fs20 - Another 41 rows of data\par \f1\fs18
4 5 3 11 99 \tab \tab \tab \_ \f8\fs20 - 25th line of data out of block of twenty five\par \f1\fs18
[EOF]\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \_ \f8\fs20 - End of file marker\par
\par
NOTE: The end of file marker, [EOF], should not be manually entered in the file as it will be 
inserted by the editor.\par
\par
Also please note that all Nonogram data files should be saved with the 
extension '.NGM'. Although the DOS version of the Nonogram Solver will only recognise data files with this extension, the Windows version can read in other data files.\par
\par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Also See\par
\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Contents\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 main_contents\plain 
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # solution}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ Solution options}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Solution options;VARS}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24  Solution options\par \plain \f8\fs20
\par
Various solution options are available. Choose Options|Solutions to access the options dialog box. By toggling the status of the check boxes it is possible to enable/disable various solution options - it is also possible to alter the size of the \plain \uldb\f8\fs20 VARS\uldb\v\f8\fs20 vars \plain\f8\fs20  array.\par
\par
\plain \b\f8\fs20 Also See\par
\par
\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 
Quick start\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 quickstart\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Edge checking\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 edgecheck\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Full row testing\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 fullrow\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Row following\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 rowfoll\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Combinational algorithm\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 combin\plain \uldb\f8\fs20\par
VARS\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 vars\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Data parsing\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 pars\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Contents\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 main_contents\plain 
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # display}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ Display options}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Display options;Rotate display}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24  Display options\par \plain \f8\fs20
\par
It is possible to rotate the display through 360 degrees (in ninety degree steps) using the Options|Display menu. It is also possible to 'flip' the display, so enabling full rotation of the display to any desired position.\par
\par
Click the radio buttons to obtain the desired rotation (measured anti-clockwise) from the default zero degrees assumed from the datafile. Toggle the check box to flip/unflip the display. Once you are happy with the desired rotation you may wish to print the \plain \ul\f8\fs20 Nonogram\plain \ul\v\f8\fs20 typnono\plain \f8\fs20  out, using the File|\uldb\f8\fs20 Print\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 print\plain \f8\fs20  menu option.\par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Also See\par
\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Printing Nonograms\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 print\plain \uldb\f8\fs20\par
Contents\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 main_contents\plain
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # print}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ Printing Nonograms}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Print;Printing Nonograms}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24 Printing Nonograms\par \plain \f8\fs20
\par
\plain \ul\f8\fs20 Nonograms\plain \ul\v\f8\fs20 typnono\plain \f8\fs20  may be printed out to the default printer using the File|Print menu option. The program will automatically size the print-out to fit the default paper size, and submit the print job to the Windows Print Manager. If there are any problems in creating the print-out, the program will display an appropriate error message.\par
\par
NOTE: This facility has been fully tested with HP DeskJets.\par
\par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Also See\par
\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Display options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 display\plain \uldb\f8\fs20\par
Contents\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 main_contents\plain
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # changes}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ Changes for Windows}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Changes for Windows;Nonogram Solver v1.0 for DOS;Upgrading from DOS}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24 Changes for Windows\par \plain \f8\fs20
\par
If you have used the Nonogram Solver v1.0 for DOS, you will be able to quickly adapt to this new Windows version. The same fast solve routines are still available, and are more easily accessible. Screen display of \plain \ul\f8\fs20 Nonograms\plain \ul\v\f8\fs20 typnono\plain \f8\fs20  has been improved, and a print option added. \par
\par
However, the use of four letter commands to drive the program has been dropped. They are replaced by alternative versions under Windows. The following list details the old commands and their new equivalents.\par
\par
\b\f1\fs18
ALTR \plain \f8\fs20 - Options|\uldb\f8\fs20 Display\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 display\plain \b\f1\fs18 \par
CATA \plain \f8\fs20 - File|Open \b\f1\fs18 \par
CHDR \plain \f8\fs20 - File|Open \b\f1\fs18 \par
COMM \plain \f8\fs20 - no longer required \b\f1\fs18 \par
FILE \plain \f8\fs20 - File|Open \b\f1\fs18 \par
HELP \plain \f8\fs20 - Help \b\f1\fs18 \par
PARS \plain \f8\fs20 - Options|\uldb\f8\fs20 Pars\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 pars\plain \b\f1\fs18 \par
SOLV \plain \f8\fs20 - Options|Solve \b\f1\fs18 \par
TITL \plain \f8\fs20 - no longer required \b\f1\fs18 \par
VARS \plain \f8\fs20 - Options|\uldb\f8\fs20 Solution\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 solution\plain \f8\fs20 \par
\par
\par
The minimum recommended hardware for running the Nonogram Solver for Windows/DOS is the same as the minimal recommended Windows hardware - 386SX20, 1MB RAM, 3.5" floppy disk and 500K hard disk space.
\par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Also See\par
\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Display options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 display\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Solution options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 solution\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Data parsing\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 pars\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Contents\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 main_contents\plain
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # pars}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ Data parsing}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Data parsing}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24 Data parsing\par \plain \f8\fs20
\par
The data parse menu option allows you to check a datafile for inconsistencies before solving takes place. A data parse takes place automatically every time before a solve, so it is normally unnecessary to use this option.\par
\par
The data parse method simply checks that the number of 'blocked' squares along each side of the Nonogram is the same. If they are not, a message is displayed and no attempt is made to solve the Nonogram.\par
\par
Typical errors highlighted are :-\par
\par
\tab Running two numbers together (eg 76 instead of 7 6) \par
\tab Forgetting the '99' (eg 7 instead of 7 99) \par
\tab Swapping the 20 and 25 column sides around \par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Also See\par
\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Solution options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 solution\plain \uldb\f8\fs20\par
Contents\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 main_contents\plain
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # typnono}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ A typical Nonogram}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Typical Nonogram;Scottie Nonogram;Nonograms;What is a Nonogram?}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24 A typical Nonogram\par\plain \f8\fs20
\par
{\f2\cf2 \{bml nonogram.bmp\}}This is a typical solved Nonogram, as produced by the Nonogram Solver program. It is 'Scottie'.
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # quickstart}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ Quick start}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Quick start;Solution options}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24  Quick start\par \plain \f8\fs20
\par
This algorithm, as suggested by the name speeds up the rate at which the solution initially progresses. It essentially looks for 'safe bets' in the data (eg rows which can only be arranged in one way) and fills them in.\par
\par
It should be noted that this algorthim, if enabled, is only used once at the start of a solution run.\par
\par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Also See\par
\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Contents\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 main_contents\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Solution options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 solution\plain 
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # edgecheck}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ Edge checking}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Edge checking;Solution options}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24  Edge checking\par \plain \f8\fs20
\par
This algorithm is designed to accelerate the starting speed of the solution. This time only the outer rim of the puzzle is scanned. If a fully filled square is found in any of these positions it is extended by the amount given in the puzzle data set. \par
\par
In general this algorithm does not significantly decrease the time taken to find a solution.\par
\par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Also See\par
\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Contents\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 main_contents\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Solution options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 solution\plain 
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # fullrow}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ Full row testing}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Full row testing;Solution options}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24  Full row testing\par\plain \f8\fs20
\par
This checks for full rows and if it finds one marks it as such, so that no other algorithm tries to check it in future. It can speed up the solution time noticeably, particularly if used with the combinational algorithm.\par
\par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Also See\par
\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Contents\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 main_contents\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Solution options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 solution\plain
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # rowfoll}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ Row following}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Row following;Solution options}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24  Row following\par \plain \f8\fs20
\par
This method starts at the beginning of a row or column and tries to work across to the other end, using the puzzle data. Can be useful depending on the puzzle.\par
\par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Also See\par
\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Contents\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 main_contents\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Solution options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 solution\plain 
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # combin}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ Combinational algorithm}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Combinational algorithm;Solution options}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24  Combinational algorithm\par\plain \f8\fs20
\par
This is the most important algorithm. Basically it calculates the number of ways in which the available data can be arranged into any particular row or column. It discounts any solutions which disagree with the data already present and temporarily stores any solutions which appear to fit. It then examines all these solutions looking for matching data, before updating the grid with any new data it has found.\par
\par
How many potential solutions it can store before giving up (it will give up and move to the next line if it finds more potential solutions than it can store) depends on the setting of \plain \uldb\f8\fs20 
VARS\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 vars\plain \f8\fs20 . The default value is 20, but this can be raised to four hundred. Obviously this will increase the computational time, and a value greater than twenty is usually only required if the combinational algorithm is being used on its own.\par
\par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Also See\par
\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Contents\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 main_contents\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Solution options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 solution\plain 
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # vars}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ VARS}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K VARS;Solution options}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24  VARS\par \plain \f8\fs20
\par
This array is used in conjunction with the combinational algorithm and has a default value of twenty. In most cases this should be sufficient to solve virtually all the supplied test Nonograms. Only one, NARCISSU.NGM, requires this value to be increased for a solution to be found. A value of two hundred easily solves this Nonogram.\par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Typical solution times using v1.1a\par
\par
\plain \i\f8\fs20
\par
\tab VARS \tab  Time  \tab  Successful\par
\par \plain \f8\fs20
\tab 5 \tab  0.3 \tab NO\par
\tab 10 \tab 15.8 \tab YES\par
\tab 20 \tab 12.7 \tab YES\par
\tab 50 \tab 13.9 \tab YES\par
\tab 100 \tab 14.2 \tab YES\par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Typical solution times using v1.2\par
\par
\plain \i\f8\fs20
\par
\tab VARS \tab  Time  \tab  Successful\par
\par \plain \f8\fs20
\tab 5 \tab  0.2 \tab NO\par
\tab 10 \tab 11.3 \tab YES\par
\tab 20 \tab 9.2 \tab YES\par
\tab 50 \tab 10.0 \tab YES\par
\tab 100 \tab 10.2 \tab YES\par
\par
NOTE: These results were obtained using GEMINI.NGM on a 486SX25 PC.
\par
\par
It should also be borne in mind that the best solution time obtained using v1.2 to solve GEMINI.NGM was 4.4 seconds. This was obtained by setting the VARS size to 20 and turning edge checking and row following off. On a 386SX25 this time increased to 10.98 seconds.
\par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Also See\par
\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Contents\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 main_contents\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Solution options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 solution\plain 
\par \pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 # winchng}${\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 $ Changes from earlier versions}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s1240 \fs20 K Nonogram solver v1.0/v1.1 for Windows;Changes from earlier versions}}
\plain \b\f8\fs24  Changes from earlier versions\par \plain \f8\fs20
\par
Version 1.2 of the Nonogram Solver for Windows is a significant new release. It provides improved solve times of up to 33% faster. It also uses Borland's custom controls to provide an improved user interface and corrects a number of small bugs. However, most bugs were corrected in v1.1 and v1.1a. The speed improvement has been obtained by optimising the \plain \uldb\f8\fs20 
Combinational\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 combin\plain \f8\fs20  algorithm. Also, see the section on \plain \uldb\f8\fs20 VARS\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 vars\plain \f8\fs20  for more information. \par
\par
\b\f8\fs20 Also See\par
\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Contents\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 main_contents\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
Solution options\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 solution\plain \uldb\f8\fs20 \par
VARS\plain \uldb\v\f8\fs20 vars\plain
\par
}