{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern Courier;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}
{\f3\froman Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss Arial;}{\f5\froman CG Times (WN);}{\f6\fswiss Univers 
(WN);}{\f7\froman Roman;}{\f8\fmodern Modern;}{\f9\fscript Script;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{\s244 \f5\fs16\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \f5\fs20 
\sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\f5\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title NONOGRAMHELP}
{\author Martin Davidson}{\operator Martin Davidson}{\creatim\yr1994\mo4\dy10\hr13\min30}
{\revtim\yr1994\mo4\dy10\hr13\min32}{\version1}{\edmins1}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}
{\nofchars65536}{\vern8368}}\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \f5\fs20 
{\plain \f5\up6 

#{\footnote main_contents}${\footnote Contents}K{\footnote Contents}}
\pard\keepn
\f4\fs8\par
\f4\fs36\b{\{bml mainicon.bmp\}} Contents\par
\f4\fs8\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
The Nonogram Solver v2.3 for Windows is designed to solve Nonogram puzzles. To
 learn more about Nonograms, see \uldb What are Nonograms?\v whatare\plain\f4\fs20 .\par
\par
To learn how to use Help, press F1, or choose How to Use Help from the Help menu.\par
\par
\b\f4\fs24 Overviews\par\plain\uldb\f4\fs20
\par 
About the Nonogram Solver\plain\uldb\v about\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
What are Nonograms?\plain\uldb\v whatare\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
A quick introduction\plain\uldb\v quickintro\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The main window\plain\uldb\v mainwindow\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Program history\plain\uldb\v history\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Legal information\plain\uldb\v legal\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\par
\par
\b\f4\fs24 How to...\par \plain \uldb\f4\fs20
\par
Entering and editing Nonogram data\plain\uldb\v enterdata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Solve a Nonogram\plain\uldb\v solvedata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Open a data file\plain\uldb\v opendata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Save a data file\plain\uldb\v savedata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Print a Nonogram\plain\uldb\v printdata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\par
\par
\b\f4\fs24 Commands\par \plain \uldb\f4\fs20
\par
The menus...\plain\uldb\v menus\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The tool bar...\plain\uldb\v toolbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The status bar...\plain\uldb\v statbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data information\plain\uldb\v datainfo\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data header\plain\uldb\v datahead\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure display\plain\uldb\v confdisp\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure solution\plain\uldb\v confsolu\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Preferences\plain\uldb\v pref\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page 

#{\footnote about}${\footnote About the Nonogram Solver}
K{\footnote About the Nonogram Solver}+{\footnote Overviews:01}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b About the Nonogram Solver\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
The Nonogram Solver is a special program designed to solve the Nonogram
 puzzles found in the Sunday Telegraph newspaper. The program can be used
 to:\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Interactively enter Nonogram data.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Load Nonogram data from a data file.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Solve Nonogram data.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Save Nonogram data to a file.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Print Nonograms.\par
\pard
\par
This help file is for version 2.3 of the Nonogram solver program\f4\fs18
  (NONOGRAM.EXE)\f4\fs20  which was released on the 15th of November 1994. If the
 version of the Nonogram Solver that you are using is not version 2.3
 then the information in this help file may be incorrect.\par
\par
To check the version of the Nonogram Solver program select
\f4\fs18  HELP|ABOUT\f4\fs20  from the main menu.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
What are Nonograms?\plain\uldb\v whatare\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
A quick introduction\plain\uldb\v quickintro\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The main window\plain\uldb\v mainwindow\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Program history\plain\uldb\v history\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Legal information\plain\uldb\v legal\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote whatare}${\footnote What are Nonograms?}
K{\footnote What are Nonograms?}+{\footnote Overviews:02}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b What are Nonograms?\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
Nonograms are challenging puzzles which\i  are designed to test your
 powers of logic and deduction\plain\f4\fs20 . They consist of a grid
 composed of usually 500 squares (20x25). Each of these squares is either
 filled with a\b\i  block\plain\f4\fs20  (or\b\i  solid\plain\f4\fs20 ) or
 a\b\i  dot\plain\f4\fs20 . The arrangement of groups of blocks is given
 on a per row or column basis and the purpose of the puzzle is to use
 this information to determine the overall arrangement of blocks and
 dots.\par
\par
The best way of illustrating this is by an example as given in
 the \uldb quick introduction\plain\uldb\v quickintro\plain\f4\fs20
 topic.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
About the Nonogram Solver\plain\uldb\v about\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
A quick introduction\plain\uldb\v quickintro\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The main window\plain\uldb\v mainwindow\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Program history\plain\uldb\v history\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote quickintro}${\footnote A quick introduction}
K{\footnote A quick introduction}+{\footnote Overviews:03}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b A quick introduction\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par\f4\fs24\b
Outline\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
This quick introduction to the Nonogram Solver takes you through the
 stages of loading, solving and printing a Nonogram while introducing you
 to the wide selection of powerful features that the program offers.\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Stage 1: Loading a Nonogram data file\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
NOTE: If the Nonogram Solver is not currently running start it now by double
 clicking on the icon in Program Manager.\par
\par
To load a data file select\f4\fs18  FILE|OPEN...\f4\fs20  from the main
 menu or click on the file open tool bar button:\par
\par
\tab{\{bmc openicon.bmp\}}\par
\par
Select the file\b  CAT.NGM\plain\f4\fs20  from the list of files as shown
 below and click\b  OK\plain\f4\fs20 .\par
\par
{\{bml quick1.bmp\}}\par
\par
The file will then be loaded by the Nonogram Solver and if all is well
 the data title will appear in the status bar:\par
\par
{\{bml quick2.bmp\}}\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Stage 2: Solving a Nonogram data file\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
To solve\i  CAT\plain\f4\fs20  select\f4\fs18  OPTIONS|SOLVE...\f4\fs20  from the main
 menu or click on the solve tool bar button:\par
\par
\tab{\{bmc solvicon.bmp\}}\par
\par
As the Nonogram is solved the display will appear as follows:\par
\par
{\{bml quick3.bmp\}}\par
\par
Note that the number of points found and time taken so far and time are
 displayed in the \uldb status bar\v statbar\plain\f4\fs20 . When the
 Nonogram has been successfully solved all the grid squares will be filled and the status bar will appear as
 follows:\par
\par
{\{bml quick4.bmp\}}\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Stage 3: Editing a Nonogram data file\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
To edit the currently loaded Nonogram data simply click on the
 number next to the row or column of data you wish to edit as shown
 below:\par
\par
\tab{\f2\cf2 \{bmc edit1.bmp\}}\par
\par
As shown below an edit box will pop up containing the data for the row or column that
 you clicked on. You can edit this data in the normal way using any non-
 numeric character (including spaces) as a spacer between the
 numbers.\par
\par
\tab{\f2\cf2 \{bmc edit2.bmp\}}\par
\par
When you have finished editing the data press\f4\fs18  RETURN\f4\fs20
 to update it or press\f4\fs18  ESCAPE\f4\fs20  to prevent it being updated.
 If you press\f4\fs18  ESCAPE\f4\fs20  any changes you have made to the
 data will be lost. If you wish to edit the next item of data press
 the\f4\fs18  DOWN ARROW\f4\fs20  key: to edit the previous item of data
 press the\f4\fs18  UP ARROW\f4\fs20  key.\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Stage 4: Saving a Nonogram data file\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
To save a data file select\f4\fs18  FILE|SAVE...\f4\fs20  from the main
 menu or click on the file save tool bar button:\par
\par
\tab{\{bmc saveicon.bmp\}}\par
\par
The file is automatically saved using the current file name. If the data
 has just been entered and does not have a file name or you
 select\f4\fs18  FILE|SAVE AS...\f4\fs20  from the main menu then the
 following dialog is displayed:\par
\par
{\{bml quick5.bmp\}}\par
\par
Enter a filename and then press\b  OK\plain\f4\fs20  or choose\b  Cancel\plain\f4\fs20  to cancel the operation.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
About the Nonogram Solver\plain\uldb\v about\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
What are Nonograms?\plain\uldb\v whatare\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The main window\plain\uldb\v mainwindow\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Program history\plain\uldb\v history\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Legal information\plain\uldb\v legal\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote mainwindow}${\footnote The main window}
K{\footnote The main window}+{\footnote Overviews:04}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b The main window\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
{\f2\cf2 \{bmc mainwin.shg\}}\par
\par
The main window display displays various information: click on any part of the window above 
for more information.\par 
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
About the Nonogram Solver\plain\uldb\v about\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
What are Nonograms?\plain\uldb\v whatare\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
A quick introduction\plain\uldb\v quickintro\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Program history\plain\uldb\v history\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Legal information\plain\uldb\v legal\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote mw_title}
{\f4\fs24\b Title}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This is the main window title.
\page

#{\footnote mw_menu}
{\f4\fs24\b Menu bar}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This is the main window menu bar. For more information on the various
 options available see \uldb The menus...\v menus\plain\f4\fs20  help
 topic.
\page

#{\footnote mw_maximise}
{\f4\fs24\b Maximise button}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click on this button to maximise the Nonogram Solver window to take up
 the full screen size.
\page

#{\footnote mw_minimise}
{\f4\fs24\b Minimise button}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click on this button to minimise the Nonogram Solver to an icon.
\page

#{\footnote mw_toolbar}
{\f4\fs24\b Tool bar}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This is the tool bar. For more information as to what the various
 buttons do see \uldb The tool bar...\v toolbar\plain\f4\fs20  help
 topic.
\page

#{\footnote mw_statbar}
{\f4\fs24\b Status bar}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This is the status bar. For more information see \uldb The 
 status bar...\v statbar\plain\f4\fs20  help
 topic.
\page

#{\footnote mw_display}
{\f4\fs24\b Display window}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This window contains a Nonogram data grid with no data loaded. Since the
 Nonogram Solver is a MDI-compliant program you can have multiple display
 windows open.
\page

#{\footnote history}${\footnote Program history}
K{\footnote Program history}+{\footnote Overviews:05}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Program history\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
The Nonogram Solver was originally designed as a DOS based program and
 written in MicroSoft Quick Basic v4.5. Version 1.0 could handle fixed
 size (20x25) Nonograms and displayed the output data using either a
 text or VGA based approach. In terms of speed it was roughly twice as
 slow as this version. It was released on 03/02/93.\par
\par
The heart of the Nonogram solving code was then ported to Windows to
 form the basis of version 1.1 of the Nonogram Solver. The program was
 rewritten in Pascal to run under Windows v3.1 and was released on
 24/05/93. Compared to the current program version 1.1 was quite
 primitive as if had only a single non-resizable non-scrollable main
 window, could only solve fixed sized Nonograms (20x25) and was no
 faster than the DOS version due to its limited display handling.\par
\par
Version 1.2 offered increased solve times of up to 33% faster than the previous version.
 It also offered cosmetic improvements by using Borland's custom controls to draw all
 the dialog interface objects. It was released on 15/08/93.\par
\par
Version 2.0 overcame the most serious shortcoming of all the previous
 versions by allowing Nonograms sizes from 1x1 up to 100x100 to be solved
 with ease. The whole of the solving code ported from version 1.0 was
 also rewritten and tool and status bars added. It
 was released on 20/12/93.\par
\par
Version 2.1 added an extra solution option - 'Single'. This enabled it
 to solve one Nonogram that the previous versions could not,\i  Hermit
 Crab\plain\f4\fs20 . It was released on 20/02/94.\par
\par
Version, 2.2, improved upon the previous versions
 considerably. It offered full MDI functionality enabling multiple Nonogram
 display windows to be open at the same time. The screen design were
 improved with a 3D look and Borland's custom controls were
 replaced by MicroSoft's 3D controls. A new interactive editing feature
 was added allowing data to be edited insitu and then saved to disk.
 An improved data parser calculated the data complexity as well as
 checking whether the data set is consistent. A new solution option -
 'Greedy' - allowed solve times to be reduced at the cost of less
 processor time for other Windows applications. File handling has been
 improved and a new automatic installation program simplified the
 program setup. It was released on 10/04/94.\par
\par
The major new features of version 2.2 are listed below:\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\f1\'B7}
\tab MDI compliancy - multiple Nonograms loaded at the same time.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab In-place entry, editing and saving of data.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Improved 3D look with configurable colours.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Data complexity calculator as well as consistancy checker.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Automatic installation program.\par
\pard
\par
Version 2.21 added a few minor changes in how the Nonogram Solver handles
 screen display of data and improved the in place editing functions.
 It was released on 02/05/94.\par
\par
Version 2.3, the current version, offers a revised interface and
 slightly improved solution times. It was released on 15/11/94.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
About the Nonogram Solver\plain\uldb\v about\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
What are Nonograms?\plain\uldb\v whatare\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
A quick introduction\plain\uldb\v quickintro\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The main window\plain\uldb\v mainwindow\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Legal information\plain\uldb\v legal\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote legal}${\footnote Legal information}
K{\footnote Legal information}+{\footnote Overviews:06}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Legal information\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Copyright\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
The Nonogram Solver is copyright \'A9 MDSoft / Martin G Davidson 1994. All rights
 reserved.\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Disclaimer of warranty\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF
 ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO
 THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
 FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
 QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE IS WITH YOU. THE AUTHOR
 ASSUMES NO LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES, DIRECT OR
 CONSEQUENTIAL, WHICH MAY RESULT FROM THE USE OF THIS
 SOFTWARE.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
About the Nonogram Solver\plain\uldb\v about\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
What are Nonograms?\plain\uldb\v whatare\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
A quick introduction\plain\uldb\v quickintro\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The main window\plain\uldb\v mainwindow\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Program history\plain\uldb\v history\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page



#{\footnote enterdata}${\footnote Entering and editing Nonogram data}
K{\footnote Entering and editing Nonogram data}+{\footnote Howto:01}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Entering and editing Nonogram data\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
In place editing\par
\plain\f4\fs20\par
To enter or edit currently loaded Nonogram data simply click on the
 number next to the row or column of data you wish to edit as shown
 below:\par
\par
\tab{\f2\cf2 \{bmc edit1.bmp\}}\par
\par
As shown below an edit box will pop up containing the data for the row or column that
 you clicked on. You can edit this data in the normal way using any non-
 numeric character (including spaces) as a spacer between the
 numbers.\par
\par
\tab{\f2\cf2 \{bmc edit2.bmp\}}\par
\par
When you have finished editing the data press\f4\fs18  RETURN\f4\fs20
 to update it or press\f4\fs18  ESCAPE\f4\fs20  to prevent it being updated.
 If you press\f4\fs18  ESCAPE\f4\fs20  any changes you have made to the
 data will be lost. If you wish to edit the next item of data press
 the\f4\fs18  DOWN ARROW\f4\fs20  key: to edit the previous item of data
 press the\f4\fs18  UP ARROW\f4\fs20  key.\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Setting the Nonogram size and title\par
\plain\f4\fs20\par
To modify the size of the Nonogram or to enter the title use 
 the \uldb data header\v datahead\plain\f4\fs20  dialog box. See this topic for
 more information.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Solve a Nonogram\plain\uldb\v solvedata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Open a data file\plain\uldb\v opendata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Save a data file\plain\uldb\v savedata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Print a Nonogram\plain\uldb\v printdata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote solvedata}${\footnote Solve a Nonogram}
K{\footnote Solve a Nonogram}+{\footnote Howto:02}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Solve a Nonogram\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
To solve a Nonogram either select\f4\fs18  OPTIONS|SOLVE\f4\fs20  from the main menu or
 click the solve tool bar button:\par
\par
\tab{\f2\cf2 \{bmc solvicon.bmp\}}\par
\par
The data is automatically checked for consistency and if it passes this
 check it is then solved using the selected solution options. The main
 window title changes while the data is being solved and the solve tool
 bar button changes to the stop solve tool bar button:\par
\par
\tab{\f2\cf2 \{bmc stopicon.bmp\}}\par
\par
The status bar is also updated to indicate that a solution is taking
 place: if the solution is successful then the status bar will contain
 the text\f4\fs18  'Successfully solved'\f4\fs20  otherwise it will be
 \f4\fs18  'Cannot obtain a solution!'.\par 
\par
If a solution cannot be found it may be that the solution options that
 are currently selected are not suitable: see the \uldb Configure 
 Solution\v confsolu\plain\f4\fs20  help option for more information.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Entering and editing Nonogram data\plain\uldb\v enterdata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Open a data file\plain\uldb\v opendata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Save a data file\plain\uldb\v savedata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Print a Nonogram\plain\uldb\v printdata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote opendata}${\footnote Open a data file}
K{\footnote Open a data file}+{\footnote Howto:03}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Open a data file\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
You can open a data file by either selecting\f4\fs18  FILE|OPEN\f4\fs20  from the main
 menu as shown below:\par
\par
{\f2\cf2 \{bmc openmenu.bmp\}}\par
\par
or by clicking on the open tool bar button:\par
\par
\tab{\f2\cf2 \{bmc openicon.bmp\}}\par
\par
After you have selected a file name the file will be loaded into the
 currently active display window. If there are no display windows
 currently open a new display window will be created and the data loaded
 into it.\par
\par
Various errors can occur when loading a data file. The Nonogram Solver
 automatically checks a data file for errors as it is loading it and
 displays an error message if the file is found to be corrupted. A list
 of the error messages follows along with typical reasons as to why they
 are displayed.\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b <File name>: No title specified.}\par
\par
\tab This error is displayed if the title field of the data file is
 blank.\par
\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b <File Name>: Data file is corrupt:  Invalid Nonogram size specified.}\par
\par
\tab This error is displayed if a Nonogram size smaller than 1x1 or
 greater than 100x100 is specified. The file will not be loaded if this message is displayed.\par
\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b <File Name>: Data file is corrupt:  Line entry truncated.}\par
\par
\tab This message is displayed if a line of data has more than 30
 elements specified.\par
\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b <File Name>: Data file is corrupt:  Data missing.}\par
\par
\tab This message is displayed if the amount of data supplied does not
 correspond to the Nonogram size given earlier in the data file.\par
\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b <File Name>: Data cannot be solved: Use the Information menu option for more help.}\par
\par
\tab This message is displayed if the data is not consistent and fails
 the parse test. See the \uldb data information\v datainfo\plain\f4\fs20  topic for more information.\par
\pard
\par
More information on the data file format is contained in the \uldb save
 a data file\v savedata\plain\f4\fs20  topic.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Entering and editing Nonogram data\plain\uldb\v enterdata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Solve a Nonogram\plain\uldb\v solvedata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Save a data file\plain\uldb\v savedata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Print a Nonogram\plain\uldb\v printdata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote savedata}${\footnote Save a data file}
K{\footnote Save a data file}+{\footnote Howto:04}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Save a data file\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
You can save a data file by either selecting\f4\fs18  FILE|SAVE\f4\fs20  from the main
 menu as shown below:\par
\par
{\f2\cf2 \{bmc savemenu.bmp\}}\par
\par
or by clicking on the save tool bar button:\par
\par
\tab{\f2\cf2 \{bmc saveicon.bmp\}}\par
\par
If the file does not have a name yet you will be asked to choose a name
 for the file. Choose\f4\fs18  FILE|SAVE AS...\f4\fs20  from the main menu to save a data
 file under a different name.\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Note:\par\plain\f4\fs20
\par
Data files are stored in a plain ASCII format (such as those produced using NOTEPAD etc). 
The format is of one title line, followed by the puzzle data. The puzzle will be in the 
form of a MxN grid and the data for the side of M must is stored first, followed by that 
for the side of N. \par
\par
For example:\par
\par \f0\fs18
White Rabbit Nonogram\tab \_ \f8\fs20 - Title line\par \f0\fs18
20 25\tab \tab \tab \tab \_ \f8\fs20 - Nonogram size information\par \f0\fs18
1 2 10 2\tab \tab \tab \_ \f8\fs20 - First line of data out of block of N\par \f0\fs18
2 3 2 4\tab \tab \tab \_ \f8\fs20 - Second line of data out of block of N\par \f0\fs18
3 4 1 6\tab \tab \tab \_ \f8\fs20 - Third line of data out of block of N\par \f0\fs18
: : : :  : \tab \tab \tab \_ \f8\fs20 - Another (M+N-4) rows of data\par \f0\fs18
4 5 3 11\tab \tab \tab \_ \f8\fs20 - Nth line of data out of block of N\par \f0\fs18
\par\plain\f4\fs20
Note also that the default file extension for Nonogram data files is '.NGM'.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Entering and editing Nonogram data\plain\uldb\v enterdata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Solve a Nonogram\plain\uldb\v solvedata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Open a data file\plain\uldb\v opendata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Print a Nonogram\plain\uldb\v printdata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote printdata}${\footnote Print a Nonogram}
K{\footnote Print a Nonogram}+{\footnote Howto:05}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Print a Nonogram\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
You can print a data file by either selecting\f4\fs18  FILE|PRINT...\f4\fs20  from the main
 menu as shown below:\par
\par
{\f2\cf2 \{bmc prntmenu.bmp\}}\par
\par
or by clicking on the print tool bar button:\par
\par
\tab{\f2\cf2 \{bmc prnticon.bmp\}}\par
\par
Select\f4\fs18  FILE|PRINT SETUP...\f4\fs20  from the main menu to
 select and configure the printer.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Entering and editing Nonogram data\plain\uldb\v enterdata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Solve a Nonogram\plain\uldb\v solvedata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Open a data file\plain\uldb\v opendata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Save a data file\plain\uldb\v savedata\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page



#{\footnote menus}${\footnote The menus...}
K{\footnote The menus...}+{\footnote Commands:01}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b The menus...\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
The Nonogram Solver has two different main menus. The normal one, shown below, is shown when there
 is at least one display window on the screen (eg when the program is
 first started).\par
\par
{\f2\cf2 \{bmc normmenu.bmp\}}\par
\par
However the menu structure changes slightly as shown below when there are no display
 windows.\par
\par
{\f2\cf2 \{bmc defamenu.bmp\}}\par
\par
The following menu options are available at all times:\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b File:} deals with file handling options.\par
\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b Help:} deals with help related options.\par
\pard
\par
The following menu options are available if there is at least one display window open:\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b Options:} deals with Nonogram data solving and display options.\par
\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b Window:} deals with the MDI display windows.\par
\pard
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
The tool bar...\plain\uldb\v toolbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The status bar...\plain\uldb\v statbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data information\plain\uldb\v datainfo\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data header\plain\uldb\v datahead\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure display\plain\uldb\v confdisp\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure solution\plain\uldb\v confsolu\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Preferences\plain\uldb\v pref\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote toolbar}${\footnote The tool bar...}
K{\footnote The tool bar...}+{\footnote Commands:02}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b The tool bar...\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
Various options can be selected using the tool bar which gives quick and
 easy access to the most commonly used functions. Shown below are all the
 tool bar icons and their functions.\par
\par
\tx600\li600\fi-200
{\{bml newdicon.bmp\}}Create a new display window.\par
\par
{\{bml openicon.bmp\}}Open a data file.\par
\par
{\{bml saveicon.bmp\}}Save a data file.\par
\par
{\{bml prnticon.bmp\}}Print the Nonogram in the currently selected display window.\par
\par
\par
{\{bml solvicon.bmp\}}Solve data in the currently selected display window.\par
\par
{\{bml parsicon.bmp\}}Data information for the currently selected display window.\par
\par
{\{bml headicon.bmp\}}Edit the header data of the Nonogram in the currently selected display window.\par
\par
{\{bml dispicon.bmp\}}Configure the display options for the currently selected display window.\par
\par
\par
{\{bml soluicon.bmp\}}Configure the solution options.\par
\par
{\{bml preficon.bmp\}}Set user preferences.\par
\par
\par
{\{bml helpicon.bmp\}}Load the help file.\par
\par
{\{bml aboticon.bmp\}}Display the 'About' information dialog.\par
\par
\par
{\{bml stopicon.bmp\}}Stop the data solve that is currently taking place.\par
\par
\pard
The buttons that are enabled depend on the state of the active window.
 Not all buttons are available at all times.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
The menus...\plain\uldb\v menus\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The status bar...\plain\uldb\v statbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data information\plain\uldb\v datainfo\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data header\plain\uldb\v datahead\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure display\plain\uldb\v confdisp\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure solution\plain\uldb\v confsolu\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Preferences\plain\uldb\v pref\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote statbar}${\footnote The status bar...}
K{\footnote The status bar...}+{\footnote Commands:03}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b The status bar...\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
The status bar is used to display various information about the
 functions of menu and tool bar button commands. It also is used to
 display information about the Nonogram data as it is loaded, parsed,
 solved and printed.\par
\par
There are three distinct areas to the status bar: click on the picture
 below for a description of these.\par
\par
{\{bml statbar1.shg\}}\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
The menus...\plain\uldb\v menus\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The tool bar...\plain\uldb\v toolbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data information\plain\uldb\v datainfo\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data header\plain\uldb\v datahead\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure display\plain\uldb\v confdisp\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure solution\plain\uldb\v confsolu\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Preferences\plain\uldb\v pref\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote st_area1}
{\f4\fs24\b Status bar - area 1}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This part of the status bar is used to display text messages. These
 messages may relate to menu functions, tool bar button functions, data
 solve information and printing information.
\page

#{\footnote st_area2}
{\f4\fs24\b Status bar - area 2}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This part of the status bar is used to display the time taken to solve the last Nonogram.\par 
\page

#{\footnote st_area3}
{\f4\fs24\b Status bar - area 3}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This part of the status bar is used to display the number of data points
 found in the last solve operation.
\page

#{\footnote datainfo}${\footnote Data information}
K{\footnote Data information}+{\footnote Commands:04}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Data information\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
The\b  data information\plain\f4\fs20  dialog can be displayed by
 selecting\f4\fs18  OPTIONS|DATA INFORMATION...\f4\fs20  from the main
 menu or by clicking on the data information tool bar button:\par
\par
\tab{\{bmc parsicon.bmp\}}\par
\par
The dialog shows various information: click on any part of the window
 below for more information.\par
\par
{\{bml parsdial.shg\}}\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
The menus...\plain\uldb\v menus\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The tool bar...\plain\uldb\v toolbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The status bar...\plain\uldb\v statbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data header\plain\uldb\v datahead\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure display\plain\uldb\v confdisp\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure solution\plain\uldb\v confsolu\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Preferences\plain\uldb\v pref\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par\pard
\page

#{\footnote pd_area1}
{\f4\fs24\b Data title}\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
The title of the Nonogram data in the active window is displayed here.
 This title can be edited in the \uldb data header\v datahead\plain\f4\fs20  dialog.
\page

#{\footnote pd_area2}
{\f4\fs24\b Grid size}\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
The size of the Nonogram data in the active window is displayed here. These values can be
 edited in the \uldb data header\v datahead\plain\f4\fs20  dialog. 
\page

#{\footnote pd_area3}
{\f4\fs24\b Parse check}\f4\fs20\par
\par
The two numbers here reflect the result of the data consistency parse
 check. They are the sum of all the elements for the X and Y directions
 and if the data is consistent the numbers should be the same. If they
 are not then the data cannot be solved.
\page

#{\footnote pd_area4}
{\f4\fs24\b File information}\f4\fs20\par
\par
If the data in the active window has been loaded from a saved data file
 the date and size of the file are displayed here.
\page

#{\footnote pd_area5}
{\f4\fs24\b Comments}\f4\fs20\par
\par
The comment displayed here reflects whether the data passed the
 consistency parse check.
\page

#{\footnote pd_area6}
{\f4\fs24\b Average row combinations}\f4\fs20\par
\par
The number displayed here is a single cell average combination number generated by
 the complexity calculator.\par
\par
The latter examines each row and column in turn and calculates the maximum number
 of ways that the data in that row can be arranged. It then divides the
 number obtained by the number of cells in that row (typically 20 or 25)
 to arrive at the\b  average\plain\f4\fs20  value displayed here. The\b  total\plain\f4\fs20  value
 is the sum of the all the number of combinations for each row and
 column and is included purely for reference.
\page

#{\footnote pd_area7}
{\f4\fs24\b Data complexity level}\f4\fs20\par
\par
The comment displayed here is determined by the value of the \ul average row
 combinations\v pd_area6\plain\f4\fs20 .
\page

#{\footnote datahead}${\footnote Data header}
K{\footnote Data header}+{\footnote Commands:05}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Data header\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
The\b  data header\plain\f4\fs20  dialog can be displayed by
 selecting\f4\fs18  OPTIONS|DATA HEADER...\f4\fs20  from the main
 menu or by clicking on the data header tool bar button:\par
\par
\tab{\{bmc headicon.bmp\}}\par
\par
The dialog shows various information: click on any part of the window
 below for more information.\par
\par
{\{bml headdial.shg\}}\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
The menus...\plain\uldb\v menus\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The tool bar...\plain\uldb\v toolbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The status bar...\plain\uldb\v statbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data information\plain\uldb\v datainfo\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure display\plain\uldb\v confdisp\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure solution\plain\uldb\v confsolu\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Preferences\plain\uldb\v pref\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par\pard
\page

#{\footnote hd_area1}
{\f4\fs24\b Data title}\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
The title of the Nonogram data in the currently active window can be edited
 here.
\page

#{\footnote hd_area2}
{\f4\fs24\b Nonogram size}\f4\fs20\par
\par
The size of the Nonogram data grid in the currently active window can be
 set here.
\page

#{\footnote confdisp}${\footnote Configure display}
K{\footnote Configure display}+{\footnote Commands:07}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Configure display\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
The\b  display configuration\plain\f4\fs20  dialog can be displayed by
 selecting\f4\fs18  OPTIONS|CONFIGURE DISPLAY...\f4\fs20  from the main
 menu or by clicking on the configure display tool bar button:\par
\par
\tab{\{bmc dispicon.bmp\}}\par
\par
The dialog shows various information: click on any part of the window
 below for more information.\par
\par
{\{bml dispdial.shg\}}\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
The menus...\plain\uldb\v menus\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The tool bar...\plain\uldb\v toolbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The status bar...\plain\uldb\v statbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data information\plain\uldb\v datainfo\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data header\plain\uldb\v datahead\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure solution\plain\uldb\v confsolu\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Preferences\plain\uldb\v pref\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par\pard
\page

#{\footnote dd_area1}
{\f4\fs24\b Rotation}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Use the radio buttons to select the degree of rotation that you require.
 The Nonogram can be rotated through 360 degrees in ninety degree steps
 measured anti-clockwise.
\page

#{\footnote dd_area2}
{\f4\fs24\b Flip display}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select this check box to flip the Nonogram around the vertical 
 if the selected rotation is 0 or 180 degrees axis. If the rotation selected is 90
 or 270 degrees then the Nonogram will be flipped around the horizontal
 axis.
\page

#{\footnote dd_area3}
{\f4\fs24\b Colours}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click on the appropriate button to change the block or dot colours for
 the currently active window. Click on the \ul set as default\v dd_area4\plain\f4\fs20  button
 to make the currently selected colours the default.
\page

#{\footnote dd_area4}
{\f4\fs24\b Set as default}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click on this button to set the current display options as the default
 for all display windows created from now on. If the\b  save on
 exit\plain\f4\fs20  option is selected in the \uldb preferences dialog\v
 pref\plain\f4\fs20  then they will be saved and recalled the next time
 the Nonogram Solver is used.
\page

#{\footnote dd_area5}
{\f4\fs24\b Restore default}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click on this button to restore the\i  factory set\plain\f4\fs20
 defaults.
\page

#{\footnote confsolu}${\footnote Configure solution}
K{\footnote Configure solution}+{\footnote Commands:06}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Configure solution\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
The\b  solution configuration\plain\f4\fs20  dialog can be displayed by
 selecting\f4\fs18  OPTIONS|CONFIGURE SOLUTION...\f4\fs20  from the main
 menu or by clicking on the configure solution tool bar button:\par
\par
\tab{\{bmc soluicon.bmp\}}\par
\par
The dialog shows various information: click on any part of the window
 below for more information.\par
\par
{\{bml soludial.shg\}}\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
The menus...\plain\uldb\v menus\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The tool bar...\plain\uldb\v toolbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The status bar...\plain\uldb\v statbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data information\plain\uldb\v datainfo\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data header\plain\uldb\v datahead\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure display\plain\uldb\v confdisp\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Preferences\plain\uldb\v pref\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par\pard
\page

#{\footnote sd_area1}
{\f4\fs24\b Quick start}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select this check box to enable the\b  quick start\plain\f4\fs20  algorithm.\par
\par
This algorithm, as suggested by the name speeds up the rate at which the solution initially
 progresses. It essentially looks for 'safe bets' in the data (eg rows which can only be
 arranged in one way) and fills them in.\par
\par
It should be noted that this algorithm, if enabled, is only used once at the start of a
 solution run.
\page

#{\footnote sd_area2}
{\f4\fs24\b Edge checking}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select this check box to enable the\b  edge checking\plain\f4\fs20  algorithm.\par
\par
This algorithm is designed to accelerate the starting speed of the solution. In this case
 only the outer rim of the puzzle is scanned. If a fully filled square is found in any
 of these positions it is extended by the amount given in the puzzle data set.\par
\par
In general this algorithm does not significantly decrease the time taken to find a solution.
\page

#{\footnote sd_area3}
{\f4\fs24\b Full row testing}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select this check box to enable the\b  full row testing\plain\f4\fs20  algorithm.\par
\par
This checks for full rows and if it finds one marks it as such, so that no other algorithm
 tries to check it in future. It can speed up the solution time noticeably, particularly if
 used with the combinational algorithm.
\page

#{\footnote sd_area4}
{\f4\fs24\b Row following}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select this check box to enable the\b  row following\plain\f4\fs20  algorithm.\par
\par
This method starts at the beginning of a row or column and tries to work across to the
 other end, using the puzzle data. Can be useful depending on the puzzle.
\page

#{\footnote sd_area5}
{\f4\fs24\b Single}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select this check box to enable the\b  single\plain\f4\fs20  algorithm.\par
\par
The single algorithm is designed to deal with rows or columns of data
 with only one element size. If it finds an element in such a row it can
 safely position a dot at either end of the element. The advantage of
 this method is that while such situations can theoretically be solved by
 brute force using the \ul combinational\v sd_area6\plain\f4\fs20
 algorithm this algorithm produces a solution much more rapidly. In many
 cases such a row of length 25 with 7 blocks of unity length (50388
 possible combinations) the \uldb VARS\v sd_area8\plain\f4\fs20  array is
 exhausted long before all the allowable combinations have been tested.
\page

#{\footnote sd_area6}
{\f4\fs24\b Combinational}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select this check box to enable the\b  combinational\plain\f4\fs20  algorithm.\par
\par
This is the most important algorithm. Basically it calculates the number of ways in which
 the available data can be arranged into any particular row or column. It discounts any
 solutions which disagree with the data already present and temporarily stores any solutions
 which appear to fit. It then examines all these solutions looking for matching data, before
 updating the grid with any new data it has found.\par
\par
How many potential solutions it can store before giving up (it will give up and move to
 the next line if it finds more potential solutions than it can store) depends on the
 setting of \uldb VARS\v sd_area8\plain\f4\fs20 . The default value is 300, but this can be increased
 to 600. Obviously this will increase the computational time, and a value greater than twenty
 is usually only required if the combinational algorithm is being used on its own.
\page

#{\footnote sd_area7}
{\f4\fs24\b Greedy mode}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select this check box to enable\b  greedy mode\plain\f4\fs20  operation.\par
\par
When greedy mode is enabled the Nonogram Solver allocates more processor
 time to itself and less to other applications reducing the time taken to
 find a solution.\par
\page

#{\footnote sd_area8}${\footnote VARS}K{\footnote VARS}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b VARS\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
The size of the VARS array can be modified using this edit control. It
 has an allowable range of 1 to 600.\par
\par
This array is used in conjunction with the combinational algorithm and has a default value
 of 300. In all cases this is sufficient to solve all the supplied Nonograms.\par
\par
\b\f4\fs20 Typical solution times using v1.1a\par
\par
\plain \i\f4\fs20
\par
\tab VARS \tab  Time  \tab  Successful\par
\par \plain \f4\fs20
\tab 5 \tab  0.3 \tab NO\par
\tab 10 \tab 15.8 \tab YES\par
\tab 20 \tab 12.7 \tab YES\par
\tab 50 \tab 13.9 \tab YES\par
\tab 100 \tab 14.2 \tab YES\par
\par
\b\f4\fs20 Typical solution times using v2.3\par
\par
\plain \i\f4\fs20
\par
\tab VARS \tab  Time  \tab  Successful\par
\par \plain \f4\fs20
\tab 5 \tab  0.2 \tab NO\par
\tab 10 \tab 11.3 \tab YES\par
\tab 20 \tab 9.2 \tab YES\par
\tab 50 \tab 10.0 \tab YES\par
\tab 100 \tab 10.2 \tab YES\par
\par
NOTE: These results were obtained using GEMINI.NGM on a 486SX25 PC.
\par
\par
It should also be borne in mind that the best solution time obtained using v2.3 to solve
GEMINI.NGM was 4.4 seconds. This was obtained by setting the VARS size to 20 and turning
edge checking, single and row following off. On a 386SX25 this time increased to 10.98 seconds.
\page


#{\footnote pref}${\footnote Preferences}
K{\footnote Preferences}+{\footnote Commands:07}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Preferences\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
The\b  preferences\plain\f4\fs20  dialog can be displayed by
 selecting\f4\fs18  OPTIONS|PREFERENCES...\f4\fs20  from the main
 menu or by clicking on the preferences tool bar button:\par
\par
\tab{\{bmc preficon.bmp\}}\par
\par
The dialog shows various information: click on any part of the window
 below for more information.\par
\par
{\{bml prefdial.shg\}}\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
The menus...\plain\uldb\v menus\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The tool bar...\plain\uldb\v toolbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
The status bar...\plain\uldb\v statbar\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data information\plain\uldb\v datainfo\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Data header\plain\uldb\v datahead\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure display\plain\uldb\v confdisp\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Preferences\plain\uldb\v pref\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par\pard
\page

#{\footnote fd_area1}
{\f4\fs24\b Solve confirmation}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select this check box to force the Nonogram Solver to display a message
 box confirming that it has successfully loaded a data file.
\page

#{\footnote fd_area2}
{\f4\fs24\b Load confirmation}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select this check box to force the Nonogram Solver to display a message
 box confirming that it has finished a solve operation.
\page

#{\footnote fd_area3}
{\f4\fs24\b Tool bar}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select this check box to display the tool bar.
\page

#{\footnote fd_area4}
{\f4\fs24\b Status bar}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select this check box to display the status bar.
\page

#{\footnote fd_area5}
{\f4\fs24\b Save on exit}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select this check box to save all user selectable options and main
 window position and size when you close the Nonogram Solver. The next
 time you run the Nonogram Solver all these options will be automatically
 restored.
\page



#{\footnote okbut}
{\f4\fs24\b OK button}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click on this button to close this dialog and update any changes you
 have made.
\page

#{\footnote Cancelbut}
{\f4\fs24\b Cancel button}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click on this button to close this dialog and ignore any changes you
 have made.
\page

#{\footnote helpbut}
{\f4\fs24\b Help button}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click on this button to display context sensitive help related to this
 dialog.
\page


}
